well joining us here now in studio is
Mark Erin Jones He associate professor
of Middle East studies at hammed bin
Khalifa University could have you with
us again just to analyze what's going on
through the day Imran was you know
suggesting as we all have in our
conversations about this issue of Israel
dragging Iran into this after that
attack on the Consular Office in
Damascus and Israel knows when it comes
to the issue of Iran it will always be
backed by the US and that's been
reconfirmed by blinken's Iron cloud
guarantee is that always set in stone I
think it's pretty hard to see uh the US
abandoning Israel and I think given the
current politics of Iran I mean over the
past five years since the Trump
Administration Biden hasn't done much to
actually reestablish the the jcpoa
agreement so Biden has been continuing
the US um relationship with Iran in such
the same way as his predecessor so I
don't think we're going to see that
change and I think but Netanyahu knows
that by attacking Iranian soil he is
going to create a battle of rhetoric uh
the Iranians are going to increase their
threats their verbal rhetoric to
threaten Israel which they are doing and
we seen the supreme leader even
participate in this and simply by doing
that that's going to necessitate a US
response as we have seen with the Biden
reaffirming his his commitment to
defending Israel and of course this also
undermines Biden's uh previous
criticisms of Netanyahu because he's
gone from saying hey I'm being firm with
Netanyahu we need to get Aid to the
gazans to basically going down a
different tag and say hey we will always
support Israel so what message did that
send that sends the message to Netanyahu
that it doesn't matter really what
Netanyahu does at the end of the day
Biden is going to unequivocally support
what he Israel does so really that takes
the pressure off Netanyahu to try and
for example resolve the aid uh situation
in Gaza and certainly take the pressure
off to try and find a political solution
here which Hamas are trying to look for
in their call for a ceasefire indeed I
mean there's a lot of speculation and
there's a lot of um an
at the moment we have to be very careful
about what we say in terms of what may
happen next CU we don't know um but at
the end of the day there are lots of
moving parts and when you have this
scenario and this conversation happening
uh from Israel uh about what they intend
to do what they want to do and how
they're going to react this makes the
neighborhood nervous yeah and we're not
seeing at the moment that much comment
from Aman from Cairo from Riad I'm just
wondering what the thought process there
was knowing that they're all involved in
the negotiations to try and find a peace
pause or ceasefire in the current war on
Gaza well I think no one in the
neighborhood so to speak wants a
regional escalation and I think a man we
see in Riyad are being extremely
cautious because anything they say now
can actually be interpreted in such a
way as to potentially jeopardize or or
harm the negotiations that are going on
between Qatar Hamas Israel and Cairo so
I think there was an element of caution
then and um you know I think people are
also uncertain you know there there is
like you said there's a lot of moving
parts and a lot of the things that have
happened have been hard to predict for
example the assassination of Ismail
hania's children and grandchildren was
something that people didn't necessarily
know you know expect so I think there is
a level of not just caution but actual U
perhaps um an inability to actually know
what to do and this there's
traditionally this notion that you know
well us leadership in the Middle East
this desite being problematic is
something that a lot of the Arab states
have have kind of sought as important
but now the US are equivocating and I
think the states in the region are
actually not sure necessarily what to do
with that right so I think it's creating
this kind of leadership vacuum there is
a leadership vacuum and people are
looking to tan Netanyahu and Biden to
see how this is going to end which is
what happens for the moment Marco and
Jones Thank you thank you